Lydia of Relationships Well, gained over
4,000 followers in 4 days. The McSeras,
Claire and Nina, gained over 20,000
followers in less than 90 days. Artist
Martin Frolic gained over 109,000
followers in less than 3 weeks. Gage
Nelson gained over 2 million followers
in less than 18 months. And this is
absolutely insane, but Spoon Depunker
gained 2.6 million followers in just 10
posts. If you give me just the next 23
minutes, I guarantee you will blow up on
Instagram. The strategy that I'm going
to be sharing with you today is actually
one that I've mentioned a few previous
times on past episodes of Build Your
Tribe. So, if you're not already,
definitely consider hitting that
subscribe button because every single
week here on the podcast, I'm putting
out helpful tips, ideas, and strategies
to help you blow up your business on
Instagram. But, the specific idea or
strategy that I'm sharing with you today
is a format for your Reels. And it's
essentially that you're going to be
creating a daily series or challenge on
your Instagram. But, in today's episode,
we're going to take a little bit of a
deeper dive into the strategy out what
really works and why some of these
challenges go viral and bring millions
of followers in 10 posts, and some end
up taking years. I'm also going to share
with you templates to make it easier for
you to come up with a series or a
challenge for yourself, and I'm going to
give you as many examples as possible
because seeing what other people are
currently doing is a great way to get
inspiration for your own challenge. The
first template is day X of Y-ing every
day until Z. One example of this is
Bradley Chou, who has gained over
400,000 followers on Instagram thanks to
his daily series, day X of DoorDashing
for a diamond ring, where every day he
documents how much money he has made
through DoorDashing in order to save up
in order to afford a diamond ring in
order to propose to his girlfriend.
There's also Everly Pearson, whose
account is run by her mom, and she
started a daily challenge, which was day
X of finger surfing every day until my
business blows up. And her business was
selling these little handmade finger
surfboards. If you're familiar with
finger skating that was popular in like
the late '90s, early 2000s, same idea
but custom-made surfboards that she has
made herself and she's gained over
23,000 followers on Instagram thanks to
this daily series. If you follow me on
Instagram, then you might be familiar
with my daily series, which is reviewing
one of my followers' reels every day
until I reach 1 million followers.
Personally, since my challenge began, I
have gained over 40,000 followers and we
just crossed the 100-day mark. And then
one more example that fits into this
format is Sky Macintosh was doing day X
of seeing if I can get jacked in less
than 20 minutes. He's past day 100 now
himself. I think he's actually closing
in on the one-year mark and he just does
at-home workouts. When it first got
started, he had no equipment. He was
just doing like push-ups, sit-ups, and
squat jumps and he was seeing how his
body would transform in less than 20
minutes a day, not allowing himself to
exercise past that 20-minute mark. He's
@dailyrepsky on Instagram and he's
gained over 180,000 followers thanks to
this challenge. The second way that you
can format this daily challenge or
series is day X of Y-ing for every new
follower. In the first number that I
gave you, you're doing something every
single day regardless of how many
followers you gain. So, to use Sky
Macintosh as an example, he's doing his
20-minute daily workouts whether he
gained 100 or 100,000 followers
yesterday. The daily challenge or the
series is simply based off doing
something for consecutive days or a
bonus tip is you can add for each
consecutive day. So, maybe day one
you're going to run 1 mile, day two
you're going to run 2 miles and by the
end of 100 days, you're running 100
miles. Now, that's pretty extreme. I'm
not necessarily recommending that you
run 100 miles, but you could add to your
daily action based off of what day it
is. And while challenges that use the
first template are cool because they're
about the journey and they're about the
progression over time, this second
template has more viral potential
because getting someone to follow you is
directly baked into the challenge
because when they follow you, it
triggers one additional action that you
have to take. For example, Stef Vegan
Fit was doing one strict push-up for
every follower that she gained until
50k. And that until 50k is something
that you can do if you want to, kind of
adding an end cap for your challenge or
adding a goal to your challenge, like
how in mine I'm reviewing one of my
followers' reels every single day, but
I've set the end cap at until I hit 1
million followers. Now, before I started
my current challenge, I had a few other
examples that I iterated on, and we're
going to come back to this idea of
iterating and pivoting your challenge
later, but my initial challenge for
myself was writing down the names of
every single person who followed me
until I reached 1 million followers.
Just so you know, my idea or my
inspiration behind that challenge was
reminding myself and reminding everyone
that every single follower matters, and
so whenever someone followed me, I would
write their name down on this giant
piece of paper, and then my vision was
that we would get to the end of the
challenge and I would have like 150,000
names written down, and it would be this
really cool banner. But, upon creating
the challenge, I very quickly realized
that most people do not have the
problem, and I would even argue I don't
have the problem of thinking that every
follower matters. Most people already
think that every follower matters, and
they don't need to be reminded of such.
Now, I did pivot this challenge after
day one because I realized writing out
every single name of every single person
who followed me would just take way too
long. I think I wrote like 215 names on
the first day, and that wasn't even
everyone who followed me. I had like 800
people follow me that day. I wrote down
250 names. It took like 3 hours, and I
was like, "There is no way this is going
to be sustainable, especially if I have
days where I gain a couple thousand
followers. It's just not going to work.
There's no way I'm going to be able to
spend 6 to 12 hours a day just writing
names." So, I was like, "Okay, I'll
pivot. What if I just read the names of
every single person who followed me?"
So, I did that for a while, but it was
like a 30-minute-long process, so I
would have to speed up the video, so you
were just watching a clip of me going
reading off a bunch of names, and it
wasn't very engaging. And again, the
whole like point of the challenge wasn't
that interesting. So, I was like, "Oh,
what if I also like add a tally mark?" I
go back to that piece of paper, and I
start adding tally marks, and that also
wasn't super effective. And not to spoil
what we're going to talk about a little
bit later in today's episode, which is
the actual ideas and strategies, the
do's and don'ts for these daily series,
I think that the reason that those
series or that challenge that I set out
for myself didn't work were number one,
like I already said, the intention
behind it just wasn't really aligned
with what my audience was looking for.
Also, the intention just wasn't clear,
right? If I'm reading off names or
writing down a bunch of names, it's not
obvious why I'm doing that. C, there's
no interesting element to it. There's
nothing that's actually like keeping
people engaged. There's no reason for
them to come back tomorrow. There's
nothing in it for them to watch my
video. But another example of a daily
action for every new follower was Lydia
of Relationships Well, who I mentioned
at the very beginning of today's
episode, who gained 4,000 followers in
like a four- or five-day period because
of her challenge, where she was sending
a personalized voice note prayer to
every single new follower. The first day
she gained couple dozen followers,
second day couple dozen, third day
couple hundred, and by day four, she had
gained a couple thousand new followers.
And so, because of this, she was sending
literally hundreds of personalized voice
note prayers. Now, I do want to give a
side note here that that unfortunately
got her account in a little bit of
trouble because Instagram's like, "Woah,
is something spammy going on? Like, why
are you sending so many voice notes?"
Also, for her personally, I'm sure that
strained her voice, and I'm sure that
was very just challenging to literally
send a prayer to thousands of people.
So, I love the intention behind it, and
I think that's why it went viral so
quickly, but unfortunately, that's also
why she had to shut down the challenge
because it just wasn't sustainable.
Instagram literally wouldn't allow her
to send that many voice notes every
single day. Now, there are workarounds,
there are potential solutions to this,
but I do want to just throw that out
there. She gained a lot lot followers
really, really fast, but if you want to
do something similar, I wouldn't
recommend sending a message or sending a
voice note to every single follower
because if you do it too much, Instagram
can flag that as spammy behavior. But
Lydia is a member of our InstaClubHub,
so I wanted to give a shout-out to her
for implementing something that we
started teaching back in December of
2025. Which by the way, if you're not an
InstaClubHub member or you have no idea
what the InstaClubHub is, the
InstaClubHub is my Instagram coaching
community where every single month you
get a live workshop from me, you get a
live group coaching call with me, you
get an entire course based off of where
you are on Instagram at the current
time, and you get a personalized 30-day
content calendar every single month. So
if you want to check out the
InstaClubHub, I will put the link for
the $7 2-week trial down in the show
notes below. But like I said, I was
super proud of Lydia for implementing
something that we taught a few months
ago and seeing immediate results because
of it. And then the third way that you
can format your challenge is by doing
something for every follower, but not
necessarily doing it every single day.
And this is something that is more
effective for those of you who maybe
bite off more than you can chew, or you
are setting out to do a daily challenge,
but you just know you're probably not
going to be able to do it literally
every single day. One example of that is
Griffy, who is petting his dog for every
single new follower he gains. He has
gained almost 100,000 followers because
of this challenge, and he doesn't do it
every single day because he's just a
kid, but every few days he records an
updated video. Hey, since the last one,
I gained 23,000 followers, and so today
I'm going to pet my golden retriever
23,000 times. The next example is Gage
Nelson, who is a friend of the channel
who has gained over 2 million followers
on Instagram alone by challenging
himself to run 1 mile for every new
follower. He also gained nearly a
million followers on TikTok and a couple
hundred thousand followers on YouTube
and on Facebook. So if you add up all of
the miles, he should theoretically be
running 3 million miles. Now, that's not
possible. That's probably impossible for
any human being to run 3 million miles
in their lifetime, and he's said this
like, "Hey, there's no way I'm going to
be able to run that many." So, instead,
he is running almost daily and he is
documenting his progress. He's lost over
100 lb on this journey and he has truly
transformed his life because of this
challenge. And so, again, he's not
running literally tens of thousands of
miles every single day, but he's doing
his best, he's documenting his journey,
and he's running as much as he can. Back
in 2016, when I started my first real
online business, I remember that my head
was filled with so many what-ifs. What
if no one buys this? What if I'm an
impostor? What if there's no market?
What if I can't sell? What if what if
what if? What if this is all just a big
waste of time and I'm just banging my
head against the wall? But what I wish
someone told me back then is, just like
you can imagine all the negative
what-ifs, there are just as many, if not
more, positive what-ifs. What if this
works out? What if this is my
breakthrough? What if this is what sets
me financially free? And thanks to one
of today's sponsors, Shopify,
it's easier than ever to turn those
positive what-ifs into reality. Shopify
is the e-commerce platform behind
millions of businesses around the world
and it now represents about 10% of the
entire e-commerce market in the US. From
some of the most famous and well-known
brands in the world, like Gymshark, to
solopreneurs, Shopify has you covered.
Shopify helps you get the word out about
your e-commerce business as if you had
an entire marketing team behind you. It
easily helps you create email and social
campaigns so that you can attract
customers wherever they're scrolling.
And if you ever get stuck, Shopify has
24/7 round-the-clock award-winning
customer support. That way, you can
tackle the important tasks, from
inventory to payments to analytics, all
in one place. No need to bookmark
multiple websites and sign up for
multiple tools, you can do it all in
Shopify. It makes your life easier and
it makes your business operations run
smoother. It's time to turn those
what-ifs into
with Shopify today. Sign up for your $1
per month trial at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
That's s h o p i f.com/tribe.
Another example of doing something for
every follower, but not making it daily
is the McSeras who I mentioned again in
the intro. They're another Insta Club
Hub All Star member themselves. They've
gained over 20,000 followers since
joining the club earlier this year. And
what they're doing is they're adding
sticky notes, colored sticky notes to a
giant wall mural that's eventually going
to be a giant pride flag. They are a
lesbian couple and the goal of their
page is to create an inclusive
environment for LGBTQ+ people. And so
every single time someone follows them,
they write their names down on a sticky
note and they add it to the giant mural.
Now, they don't necessarily do this
every single day or document every
single time a new person follows them,
but every few days they update their
followers on the mural and how it's
coming along. And they've started to
sell merch and other products that are
related to the mural and it's just been
awesome to see them gain again over
20,000 followers in just the last few
months. And then the final example of
doing something for every follower is
the artist who I mentioned in the intro,
Martin Frohlich. I'm not sure if I'm
saying his last name right, but he is
adding an eyeball to this giant
mural-like illustration for every single
new follower he has gained. Now, he has
gained over 100,000 followers since
starting this challenge and he has done
so in just the first 3 weeks since
starting the challenge. And he, similar
to Gage, has said like hey, it's going
to be impossible for me to draw 100,000
eyeballs on this mural in like 24 hours.
So he's just kind of spacing it out. And
every single day he's adding more. He's
adding a couple hundred or a couple
thousand eyeballs to this mural with the
eventual goal of catching up with the
number of followers that he has gained.
But again, all of this incentivizes the
follow because you want to see his
artwork and you want your follow to
equal one more eyeball added to this
artwork. Basically, you are doing an
action, preferably every single day, and
that action can be based off of what day
of the challenge you are currently on,
or the number of followers that you
gained yesterday. And if you want to,
you can set a cap or a goal for the
challenge. Now, I do want to note you
can also base this off of different
kinds of engagement. So, you can say
that you're going to do a push-up for
every single person who shares this
post, or you're going to do a different
action for every single person who likes
this post, or who comments on this post.
I, as part of my daily challenge, and
yes, only reviewing the Reels of people
who follow me, but the way that you can
enter in to have your Reel reviewed the
next day changes. Almost every single
day I have a different action that I
want people to take. Sometimes it's
sharing the post with a friend.
Sometimes it's liking the post.
Sometimes it's multiple actions, liking
the post and commenting me, commenting
me and sending the post back to myself.
I like to change up the call to action
just to keep people on their toes and
make it so that you actually have to
watch the Reel to hear what the call to
action is, thus getting me more of a
watch time and making sure that people
are actually engaging in the way that I
want them to. Now that you've heard a
bunch of examples, I think that there's
two different ways that you can approach
this daily challenge. One way that you
can approach it is for consistency. If
you're someone who just struggles to
stay consistent on Instagram, coming up
with some sort of daily challenge or
series for yourself will help you become
more consistent, because then every
single day you don't have to come up
with a new post idea, plan a new script,
and reinvent the wheel. You can simply
do the next day in the series. Now, for
me, as I'm planning out my content, if I
have two posts scheduled for a day, I
know I'm going to have three posts on
that day, because every single day I'm
guaranteed to have my daily challenge.
Every single day I'm guaranteed to
review another person's Reel. So, even
if I come to a day on my content planner
where life got busy or things got messed
up or whatever, and I have zero posts
scheduled that day, I know I'm still
going to have at least one post go live
that day, because I'm going to do my my
challenge or series. So, be honest with
yourself, be real with yourself, and
know that if you're someone who really
just struggles to stay consistent on
Instagram, you're just kind of new to
the whole Instagram sphere and growing
your small business on Instagram, maybe
you start with a series that doesn't
necessarily have the goal of virality,
it just has the goal of helping you get
consistent. The other way that you can
approach this is probably why you
clicked on this episode, which is
virality. Wanting to do a challenge for
the sake of gaining a lot of followers
in a short amount of time. Reaching 10k,
100k, or a million followers, whatever
your goal is, that is possible with one
of these challenges, but of course, it's
more difficult. If it was easy, every
single person would do it. Now, before
we talk about how to design your
challenge for virality, if your goal is
simply consistency, then I would suggest
doing your daily challenge or your daily
series around something like tips or fun
facts or myths. Day X of giving a
different myth about rock climbing. Day
X of giving a quick tip for baking.
These daily series are less likely to go
viral because they're not really
challenges, they're not that creative or
unique or interesting. It might be
challenging for you to post every single
day, but for your audience, it's like,
"Okay, I'm going to get a daily tip. I'm
going to get a daily idea." And that's
cool, that's helpful, but that's not
really all that novel. It's not all that
unique. It's not all of that worth
following. So again, that'll help you
with consistency, but it probably won't
allow you to go viral. If your goal is
to go viral, here's three things that I
think you need to focus on. Number one,
your challenge absolutely needs to be
niche related. Let's take that example
of the kid who's petting his dog. If you
were to do that same challenge on your
page, you would be generating a lot of
followers who are interested in dogs,
who like seeing little kids who pet
dogs. And if your niche, if your
business has nothing to do with dogs,
then that would be a really dumb
challenge to do because sure you might
go viral, but you're going to go viral
in the wrong way. You're going to end up
with a bunch of followers who don't
actually care about your business.
That's why the challenge that the
Mixhers are doing is so awesome because
it's so aligned with their niche. You
are only going to follow them if you
actually want them to build and continue
with their pride flag mural. If that's
not something you're into, if that is
something you disagree with, or if
that's something that's offensive for
you, you're not going to follow them.
But they don't want you following them
anyways. They only want people following
them who actually want to be a part of
the community. So, it must be niche
related in some way, or it can be a
little bit niche adjacent, but you want
it to at least in some way connect or
attract the ideal follower that one day
will become a customer. The second thing
to focus on is what I'm going to call
commitment. And commitment means a few
things. Number one, the challenge needs
to be challenging. I was having a
conversation with one of our
InstaClubHub members about this idea a
few months ago and I gave her an idea
and she goes, "Oh, man, that's that's
really tough. That's going to be really
challenging." And I was like, "Well,
yeah, that's the point." The more
challenging it is, the more likely
people are to follow. If it's taking a
step for every new follower that I gain,
you're probably not going to gain very
many followers. But if you're over 400
lb like Gage was, and you challenge
yourself to run a mile for every
follower, well, yeah, that's a whole
heck of a challenge are a lot more
likely to want to get involved and want
to participate. So, commit to something
challenging. And the more challenging
that you make it, the more likely you
are to go viral faster. Now, again, I'm
not encouraging you to be extreme. I'm
not encouraging you to put yourself in
harm's way, but let's be real. The more
challenging your challenge is, the less
of a challenge it will be to go viral.
But also, commitment doesn't just mean
committing to something hard. It also
means committing to doing it
consistently. In doing research for this
episode, I came across a lot of people
who gave up on their challenge after a
few days. And I understand why because
here's what is likely going to happen,
and here's something that you need to
keep in mind. When you first start your
challenge, day one will be exciting. Day
one will be this hot fresh new thing.
Hey, I'm challenging myself, and all of
your followers are likely going to be
excited. Oh, woohoo! Brock is doing a
new daily series where he's reviewing
reels. Let's get involved. Let's get
hyped. Let's get excited. But then, by
day five, a lot of that excitement has
worn off. By day 28, a whole heck of a
lot of that excitement has worn off. But
if you can stick with it for long
enough, eventually you will either have
a post that is an outlier and or even
goes viral and then it reignites and
brings in a bunch of new followers who
are excited or you will reach where
you've been doing the challenge for so
long that just the fact that you've been
doing it for so long is impressive and
people are more likely to follow you or
engage with the posts because of that.
For example, every single time I hit a
new milestone like I hit day 50 of my
daily challenge or I just recently hit
day 100 of my daily reel reviews, every
single time I hit one of those, people
get re-excited and they're like, "Oh my
gosh, you're still doing it. That's so
awesome. I admire the consistency." And
that in and of itself becomes a reason
for people to engage outside of what the
actual challenge is. Just the fact that
you've been doing it for a long time is
impressive. And so, besides committing
to something hard, commit to doing it
for the long haul. Commit to doing it
for at least 90 days. Commit to doing it
for at least 100 days. Commit to doing
it for an entire year before you decide
to give up or change or pivot. Now, this
does bring up two things that I want to
mention, which is number one, I do not
suggest putting a cap or a goal that is
time bound. So, I know earlier we talked
about, you know, I'm reviewing a reel
every day until 1 million followers or
Everly Pearson was posting about her
small business every day until her
business blew up. That sort of a cap or
that sort of a goal is great, but I'm
not a big fan of setting a cap where
it's like, "I'm giving a tip every day
for 30 days." Or I'm going to be doing a
burpee for every new follower every day
for a month or every day for 100 days.
Because I think in the psychology of the
viewer, when you put that time-bound cap
on it, they know, well, 100 days from
now, am I going to want to unfollow you?
Like, I'm following you for this
challenge, and so if I follow you on day
33, and you're doing it for 50 days,
that means I'm only going to be able to
follow you for 17 days before the
challenge ends, and it just
disincentivizes the randomness or the
unexpectedness of the challenge. It's
like you know when it's going to end,
you know how it's going to end, and so
people are less likely to follow. So, I
wouldn't put a time-bound cap on it.
But, the second idea that this brings up
is just the idea of pivoting. And I told
you earlier that my initial challenge
had to be pivoted after day one. And
then after 21 days of reading and adding
a tally mark for every new follower, I
pivoted again. And so, I want to give
you encouragement to pivot. I know
that's kind of conflicting with what I
just said, but if your challenge truly
needs a pivot, it's okay to pivot. But,
I think there's a difference, and you'll
be able to tell whether or not it's just
the challenge is dumb, maybe the idea
wasn't great to begin with, maybe it was
just not exactly aligned, and then you
need to pivot, versus you need to pivot
because you're not getting results as
fast as you wanted, or you're not going
viral as much as you wanted, or it's
getting tough. Yeah, it's supposed to be
tough. But, be real with yourself and
know when it's time to, yeah, pivot,
this challenge is dumb, it was a bad
idea, I'm going to do a different
challenge, versus I'm just going to give
up altogether, I'm going to quit this
challenge. And then the third thing to
focus on is to add some level of
curiosity or unexpectedness or some sort
of journey. The more unique you can make
your challenge, the more likely people
are to follow. There are lots of people
who are running a certain distance for
every follower, but the reason that I
would argue Gage is the most successful
out of all of them is that he started at
over 400 lb, and he gained so many
followers that he has put himself in a
really tough situation where he's got to
run a lot of miles. And because he has
committed, and he has run thousands of
miles now, and he's lost hundreds of
pounds now, it makes it that much more
impressive, that much more unique and it
builds that curiosity. Only you will be
able to determine where your sweet spot
is. Where is the exact point for you
where the challenge is challenging
enough that you're going to do it every
single day and you're going to commit to
it and yet it's still challenging enough
that it is novel and unique and
challenging, something worth following.
So now because you've made it this far,
I want to challenge you to start a
challenge for yourself. And if you
already have an idea or a rough outline
or a brainstorm, go ahead and put it in
the comments of this YouTube video as
well because I often find the more ideas
that we see and hear, the more it can
spark inspiration for our own challenge
or series. And so while I tried to give
you a bunch in today's episode, if you
read the comments on this YouTube video,
there might already be a couple of other
people who have put their daily
challenge or series in the comments and
again, maybe that could help you have
your own light bulb moment. But I want
to challenge you to do this for
yourself. I also want to challenge you
to hit the thumbs up button if you made
it this far in the episode because
clearly that means you liked what you
were hearing. If you hit that subscribe
button, then I'll see you in the next
one and as always, happy networking.